Dockers 
  docker is containerization platform tool os contains 2 thing os kernal and software. kernal is responsbile to communicating with hardware. on top of os we will install docker 
  docker is a tool to create deploy and run a application in a container 
  what is contianer ?
  it is used tto way to package a application with necessary dependcies and libarries  container id is called as name space. cgroup this will allow you to limit the cpu memory and 
  it is a runing instance of a image. basically image never runs  we will lanch a conatiner which execute this image. before we start a container we need to download a image 
  resource.
  what is a docker image?>
  it is nothing but file which all the dependencies and configuration to run a application it is a readable file, it conatins all the requirment to run a application.
  docker image is a template it has set of instractions to run application on container on top of docker platform.
  first we need to pull the image docker pull nginx
  then we wehave run it by using docker run -dt -p 80:80 nignix
  what is container identifier?
  when  we create a container it will create a uniqe id it is called as UUID. there is another way to identify the docker container as well with its name. if you dont give a name to your docker
  it  will generate a name with two word _ between.
  docker run --name dippy -dt -p 80:80 python.           if you want to pull any another version docker pull mysql:5.3.2
  we can download 2 different version of application at same time in docker.
  port binding : 
  by default container can make conection to outside world but outside worl can not make connect to container. if you want to accept the connection from outside world you have make a bind with host port
  8000:80  8000 is my host prot and 80 is my container port.
  attach and detached mode:
  when you run docker in detached mode you will be having access to terminal
  attach is foreground you will be able to see verything in terminal like log but you wont get option to do anything when you stop it by using ctrl + d you contriner will be stopped too.
  stopping and removing docker container:
  docker container ls -aq will give you list of all container in stop and runing container id.
  docker container start $(docker container ls -aq) this will start all contrainer .  exited mean container is stopped.
  if you want to remove a container    docker container rm container id or name
  docker container exec:
  this exec will run new command inside the container this exec will only run when the container is up and runing. 
  docker container hesh exec -it bash. if your primary process exist then container also exits.
  it flag in bash and nginx we have stdin stdout this are from command line we are giving inout and getting output
docker restart policy:
  whne a server or demon restart docker container wont start toavido this we attach restart policy to docker continer 
  docker continer run -d --restart unless-stopped niginx
  disk usage:
  to see the disk usage dockwer system df
  to get more info docker system df -v
  automatic delete:
  if you want to delete a continer once it job is completed
  docker container run -dt --rm --name ok busybox ping -c10 google.com 
  

  
  
